IVANOV S.A.

# DATA STRUCTURES AND ALGORITHMS HYBRID IMPLEMENTATION (DRAKON + GOLANG)

## INTRODUCTION 
All the things we know and understand are made up of something called data. Data is like a bunch of unstructured information that helps us think, learn, and make stuff in the real world, like things in nature, things we create, and even things we see in pretend worlds.
To structure this data in order to obtain new knowledge or new meanings, it is necessary to process them according to a certain plan of action. 
In a stricter definition, a data structure is a form of representation
of the properties and relationships of a subject area, focused on the
expression of a description of data by means of formal languages.
Technologically, a data structure is a container in which information is
arranged in a certain way that establishes a way to place data in
computer memory for quick and efficient access to them.

In turn, algorithms are sets of step-by-step instructions for solving
computational problems by processing data structures. Data structures
and the processes of their processing according to various algorithms
are inextricably linked with each other. In some problems, the choice of
algorithm is dictated by the data structure, in others, the data
structure determines the choice of algorithm. One of the founders of the
formation of computer science as an academic science, N. Wirth,
formulated this connection in the title of the book: \"Algorithms + data
structures = program\" \[Wirth\].

The variety of objective, non-objective and virtual worlds and the
processes taking place in them predetermine the emergence of many
problem situations, the effective solution of which involves the choice
of data structures and algorithms for their processing. A solution is
considered efficient if it solves the problem within known resource
constraints. First of all, this refers to the total space available for
storing data, as well as the time allotted for the execution of each
algorithm. When choosing a data structure for solving a problem, one
should first determine the basic operations that must be supported,
secondly, to quantify the resource constraints for each operation of the
algorithm (occupied memory and execution time of operations).

A data structure requires a certain amount of memory for each stored
data element, a certain amount of time to perform one basic operation,
and a certain amount of programming effort. Each task has limitations on
available space and time. Each solution to a problem uses the underlying
operations in some relative proportion, and the data structure selection
process must take this into account. Only after a thorough analysis of
the characteristics of the problem being solved, it is possible to
determine the best data structure for it\[\].

Based on the considerations presented, the Handbook provides basic
information about the most commonly used data structures and algorithms,
since they form the basis of the professional activity of a programmer
of any level. Considerable attention is paid to the issues of evaluating
the efficiency of data structures and algorithms in terms of occupied
memory and the execution time of basic operations. The organization of
data structures and the study of basic algorithms is carried out in the
Golang programming language and is accompanied by explanatory
illustrations. In a number of important cases, the algorithm
visualization technology based on the Drakon graphical language is used.

**SECTION 1** reveals the meaning of the main concepts in the discipline
Data Structure and Algorithms: data, data type, abstract data types,
algorithms. A high level of competence in the development of efficient
algorithms is necessary for every programmer, not only when solving
practical problems related to the use of IT technologies. Knowledge in
the field of data structure and algorithms is the most important
component in an interview when applying for a job in a large IT company.

**SECTION 2** describes the basics of the Golang programming language in
sufficient amount for acquaintance and practical mastery of knowledge
and skills in the field of data structure and algorithms. Of course,
basic concepts and a certain level of programming are assumed for
reading this chapter.

**SECTION 3** gives a brief description of the visual language DRAKON,
which allows to represent any complex algorithms in the form of a
DRAKON-diagram using icons, corresponding to the basic constructions of
the Golang language. The technology of automated transformation of the
DRAKON-diagram into the program code is given in the editor DRAKON WEB
Editor, with subsequent implementation in the shell of Visual Studio
Code. Actually, this is a hybrid, two-stage approach: in the first step
a DRAKON-diagram is made, the icons of which are filled with
constructions of the language Golang, on the second step - automatically
generated software code, implemented in any software environment

**SECTION 4** presents Golang language constructs that implement the
basic abstract data types described in Section 1: array, cut, list etc.
Explanations are given regarding the use of appropriate Golang language
constructs.

**SECTION 5** provides basic insights into the analysis of algorithm
complexity and the evaluation and effectiveness of algorithms from the
perspective of computer memory (space) and time costs. Theoretical ideas
about estimating the complexity of algorithms are decisive when choosing
the most effective one.

**SECTION 6** deals with basic sorting algorithms. Each algorithm is
represented by a corresponding DRAKON-diagram, accompanied by necessary
explanations about the processing process and estimation of complexity.

**SECTION 7** discusses basic algorithms for searching elements in
different data structures (slices, lists). In addition, the section
includes a description and DRAKON-diagram of hash algorithms that
significantly reduce search time by reducing the number of element value
comparisons.

**SECTION** 8 provides conceptual information about binary trees --
nonlinearÂ data structures, including binary search trees and
self-balancing trees. This section describes the basic DRAKON-diagrams
of algorithms for inserting new ones, finding nodes with specified
values and deleting nodes.

**SECTION 9** provides basic information about the most complex data
structures -- graphs. Basic concepts of graph theory and their basic
types are given. Algorithms of representation of graphs, their
traversal, choice of path between vertices are considered.
